[Master] - Added Custom login portal documentation (#3377)
wso2/docs-is: en/docs/references/extend/rebranding/customizable-login-portal.md

> # Customize login portal

Reviewer: Let's watch the consistency with `directory` and `folder`.

> This feature can be used for both layout customization and branding customization of user interfaces like the login page, register page, username and password recovery pages, and single sign-on pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the layout and branding of user interfaces like the login page, register page, username and password recovery pages, and single sign-on pages.
```

> All UIs are available in the `authenticationendpoint`, `accountrecoveryendpoint`, and, `x509certificateauthenticationendpoint` apps located in `<IS_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/webapps` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All UIs are available in the `authenticationendpoint`, `accountrecoveryendpoint`, and `x509certificateauthenticationendpoint` apps located in `<IS_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/webapps` folder.
```

## General components of the UI

> All pages of the identity server are separated into three general components as shown below. You can reference these components when you write the custom layout using a special notation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All pages of WSO2 Identity Server are separated into three general components as shown below. You can reference these components when you write the custom layout using a special notation.
```

    
- Login page
    ![Login Page]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/login-page-labelled.png)

- Register page
    ![Register Page]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/register-page-labelled.png)

> ## Layout Syntaxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Layout syntaxes
```

This section includes details about the special syntax that can be used when writing a custom layout code.

- **Condition block**
    
    ![Condition Block]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/condition-block.png)

    This is similar to an `IF` block. This condition block will activate or deactivate according to the value of the `isPolicyPage` variable.
    

>     - If the value of `isPolicyPage` is `true` or any non-empty string then the content inside the block will be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the value of `isPolicyPage` is `true` or any non-empty string, then the content inside the block will be executed.
```

    - For all other values including null and undefined, the content of the block will not be executed.

- **Not Condition Block**

    ![Not Condition Block]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/not-condition-block.png)
    
    This is similar to an `IF` block with a NOT condition. 
    
    - If the value of `isPolicyPage` is `false`, an empty string, null or undefined, the content inside the block will be executed. 
    - For all other values, the content of the block will not be executed.

- **Component Syntax**
    
    ![Component Syntax]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/component-syntax.png)

    This syntax will be used to indicate the position of the general component in the custom layout code. The component syntaxes will be replaced with actual content at runtime.

- **Data Syntax**
    
    ![Data Syntax]({{base_path}}/assets/img/references/data-syntax.png)

    This syntax can be used to add data to the layout code. The value stored in the `containerSize` variable will be converted to a string and placed in the corresponding location at runtime. All data syntax values will be sanitized before adding to the layout code.

!!! info

>     All these variables will be provided by `JSP` pages. To get more data from JSP pages, add the data into the `layoutData` Map object from each JSP page. This `layoutData` map object can be found on each JSP page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    All these variables will be provided by `JSP` pages. To get more data from JSP pages, add the data into the `layoutData` map object from each JSP page. This `layoutData` map object can be found on each JSP page.
```

## Add a custom layout for the authentication/recovery pages

To customize these pages, follow the steps below.

!!! note

>     On this page, we will be referring to `<IS_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/webapps/` as `webapps` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    On this page, we will be referring to `<IS_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/webapps/` as the `webapps` folder.
```

    
### Step 1: Create the extensions folder

Navigate to `webapps/authenticationendpoint` and create a new folder named `extensions`.

!!! note
    Repeat the above step for `accountrecoveryendpoint` and `x509certificateauthenticationendpoint` as well.

### Step 2: Create the basic custom layout resources

To create the basic custom layout resources:

> 1. On the `authenticationendpoint` folder, navigate to the created `extensions` folder and create `layouts` folder and `customs` folders recursively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the `authenticationendpoint` folder, navigate to the created `extensions` folder and create the `layouts` folder and the `customs` folders recursively.
```

    
    ```
    └── extensions
        └── layouts
            └── custom
    ```

> 3. Navigate to `webapps/authenticationendpoint/includes/layouts/default` folder, copy the `body.html` file and add it to the created `custom` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/includes/layouts/default` folder, copy the `body.html` file, and add it to the created `custom` folder.
```

4. Create the following files and folder inside the `custom` folder:
    - `styles.css` file
    - `script.js` file
    - `assets` folder

!!! note
    Repeat the above steps for `accountrecoveryendpoint` and `x509certificateauthenticationendpoint` as well.

### Step 3: Add a custom layout design

> To add a custom layout to the login page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom layout to the login page:
```

> 1. Navigate to `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions/layouts/custom/`

Reviewer: incomplete

Author: `Navigate to `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions/layouts/custom/` and copy the content as instructed below:`

Is this okay? Sub-points 1,2,3,4 should be done while the user is in this folder

    1. Copy the code snippet from the [html file](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/body.html) into the `body.html` file.

    2. Copy the code snippet from the [css file](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/style.css) into the `styles.css` file.

    3. Copy the code snippet from the [javascript file](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/script.js) into the `script.js` file.

    4. Copy the [illustraction.svg](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/illustration.svg) file into the `assets` folder.

> 2. Navigate to `webapps/authenticationendpoint/includes` directory and copy the `product-title.jsp` and `product-footer.jsp` files into the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/includes` directory and copy the `product-title.jsp` and `product-footer.jsp` files to the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions` directory.
```

>     1. Copy content from the [`jsp` file containing the project title](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/project-title-1.jsp) into the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions/product-title.jsp` file of the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Copy content from the [`jsp` file containing the project title](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/project-title-1.jsp) to the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions/product-title.jsp` file of the app.
```

>     2. Copy content from the [`jsp` file containing the project footer](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/product-footer-1.jsp) into the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions/product-footer.jsp` file of the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Copy content from the [`jsp` file containing the project footer](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/product-footer-1.jsp) to the `webapps/authenticationendpoint/extensions/product-footer.jsp` file of the app.
```

    !!! note
        Repeat the above steps for `accountrecoveryendpoint` and `x509certificateauthenticationendpoint` as well.
        
        The files used for step 2.a and 2.b are as follow:

        - [Project title](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/product-title-2.jsp).

        - [Project footer](https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/tree/master/en/docs/assets/code-samples/product-footer-2.jsp)

3. Refresh the browser and check out the added custom layout.

    !!! tip
        In certain cases, the server might stop working after adding changes. In such a case, restart the server to check the changes.

> !!! note 

Reviewer: Two notes following one after the other.
Why not create another heading `Best practices` for this list.

    - Use the following **best practices** when creating a custom layout:
        - Add a prefix for the new CSS classes so that the newly added classes will not conflict with existing classes.
        - Set `cache="false"` when developing a custom layout. (Make sure to remove the `cache="false"` in production code).

>     - If you need to build the apps from `identity-apps` source code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you need to build the apps from the `identity-apps` source code:
```

>         1. Add the developed custom layout folder into `<IDENTITY_APPS_SOURCE_CODE>/components/login-portal-layouts/layouts` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. Add the developed custom layout folder into the `<IDENTITY_APPS_SOURCE_CODE>/components/login-portal-layouts/layouts` directory.
```

>         1. Add the developed custom layout folder into `<IDENTITY_APPS_SOURCE_CODE>/components/login-portal-layouts/layouts` directory.

Author: ```suggestion
        1. Add the developed custom layout folder into `<IDENTITY_APPS_SOURCE_CODE>/components/login-portal-layouts/layouts` folder.
```

> # Customize Login Portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Customize Login Pages
```
